.\" Manpage for permute.
.\" Contact w7og@yahoo.com to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 1 "22 Jan 2025" "3.0" "permute man page"
.SH NAME
permute \- word perturbation generator
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B permute [-m] [arg]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" Add any additional description here
.PP
permute will generate every perturbation of the string provided by the argument.
.PP
The output is a word list written to stdout one word per line. The length of the perturbated words will be greater than a minimum length (specified as an option) and less than or equal to the length of the string specified as arg.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.\" Add any additional description here
.TP
\fB\-m --min-word-size=SIZE\fR
The minimum output word size. SIZE must be a positive integer greater than zero and less than the length of the input string. If not specified, the default is 2.
.TP
\fB\-? --help\fR
List the input options.
.SH ARGUMENT
.PP
.\" Add any additional description here
The string of characters that you wish to perturbate.
.PP
Note: The default arg (string) is "ADOB". Be careful not to specify a long string. The program will accept any length string as input. However, strings longer than 6 characters will generate significant output.
.SS "Exit status:"
.TP
0
if OK,
.TP
1
if an error is encountered (or the ? option is specified)
.SH BUGS
No known bugs.
.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
.\" Add any additional description here
A common use for the program is to help with certain word puzzels. The following example will find the perturbations of the string "FFERO" and then pass the output through a spell checker to generate a list of possible English words:
.PP
\fBpermute FFERO |sort|uniq>in.txt ; comm -23 in.txt <(aspell list < in.txt) 2>/dev/null\fR
.SH AUTHOR
John Kuras (w7og@yahoo.com)
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Please forward reports to: <mailto:w7og@yahoo.com>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2025 John Kuras
.br
License: dwtfywwi. (Do What You Want With It)
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
Full documentation <http://www.kuras-pen.net/passwin/frames.html>

