\input texinfo @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename permute.info
@include version.texi
@settitle GNU Permute @value{VERSION}

@c Define a new index for options.
@defcodeindex op
@c Combine everything into one index (arbitrarily chosen to be the
@c concept index).
@syncodeindex op cp
@c %**end of header

@copying
This manual is for Permute (version @value{VERSION}, @value{UPDATED}),
which prints every permutation of a string provided by the user.

Copyright @copyright{} 2025 John Kuras

@quotation
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts, and with no Back-Cover
Texts.  A copy of the license is included in the section entitled
``GNU Free Documentation License''.
@end quotation
@end copying
@c If your manual is published on paper by the FSF, it should include
@c the standard FSF Front-Cover and Back-Cover Texts, as given in
@c maintain.texi.

@dircategory Basics
@direntry
* Permute: (permute).               TODO.
@end direntry

@titlepage
@title Permute
@subtitle for version @value{VERSION}, @value{UPDATED}
@author Permute Developer (@email{bug-permute@@gnu.org})
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying
@end titlepage

@contents


@ifnottex
@node Top
@top Permute

This manual is for Permute (version @value{VERSION}, @value{UPDATED}),
which prints every permutation of a string provided by the user.
@end ifnottex

@menu
* Overview::		General purpose and information.
* Sample output::	Sample output from @command{permute}.
* Invoking permute::	How to run @command{permute}.
* Reporting bugs::	Sending bug reports and feature suggestions.
* GNU Free Documentation License:: Copying and sharing this documentation.
* Concept index::	Index of concepts.
@end menu


@node Overview
@chapter Overview

@cindex greetings
@cindex overview

The GNU @command{permute} program
(@url{https://www.gnu.org/software/TBD/}) finds every permutation of a string..
It allows nonmathematitions to use a classic computer
algorithm which would otherwise be unavailable to them.

@cindex joke, not
Not to spoil the joke, but of course the practical purpose of
Permute is to serve as a tool that can be used to cheat at certain word
puzzels.

@cindex coding standards
@cindex maintainer standards
@cindex standards, coding
@cindex standards, maintainer
First, Permute follows the Kuras coding standards
(@pxref{Top,,Preface,standards,Kuras Coding Standards}) and maintainer standards (@pxref{Top,,Preface,maintain, Information for
Permute Maintainers}).  These are the basic documents which all Kuras
packages should adhere to.

The Permute package also implements recommended development practices
not embodied in the standards, using GNU packages and features:

@itemize @bullet
@item
@cindex Automake
@cindex Autoconf
It uses Automake (@pxref{Top,,Introduction,automake,GNU Automake}) and
hence also Autoconf (@pxref{Top,,Introduction,autoconf,GNU Autoconf})
for configuration.

@item
@cindex Gnulib
@cindex @command{srclist-update} script
@cindex @file{README-dev} source file
It uses Gnulib (@pxref{Top,,Introduction,gnulib,GNU Gnulib}) to enhance
portability and avoid duplication of common sources.  Both
@code{gnulib-tool} and @code{srclist-update} are used, for purposes of
example.  See the @file{README-dev} file in the distribution.

@item
@cindex Gettext
GNU Gettext (@pxref{Top,,Introduction,gettext,GNU Gettext}) is used
for internationalization support.  Permute's messages have been translated
into many languages.

@item
@opindex --help
Internally, Permute uses the GNU @code{getopt_long} function
(@pxref{Getopt Long Options,,,libc,GNU C Library}) to parse options,
thus supporting GNU-style long options such as @option{--help}.

@item
@cindex Help2man
The Permute Man page is generated with GNU @code{help2man}
(@pxref{Top,,Overview,help2man,GNU @code{help2man}}) from the
@option{--help} output.  This relieves the maintainers from the burden
of updating separate man documentation, yet provides a reasonable
overview for man devotees.

@item
@cindex Texinfo
Finally, Texinfo (@pxref{Top,,Introduction,texinfo,Texinfo}) is the
documentation format for this manual.  It supports output in Info,
HTML, PDF, DVI, plain text, XML, and other formats.

@end itemize

Permute is implemented in C@. plus a subset of c++ extensions.  The GNU Gettext distribution contains examples in many other programming languages; see the
Gettext home page at @url{https://www.gnu.org/software/gettext/}.

@cindex @file{Makefile.am} targets
The top-level @file{Makefile.am} in Permute also contains a few special
targets for other projects to adapt as desired:

@table @code
@item diff
Make a diff from the previous release, assuming the current tarball is
in the current tarball.

@item po-check
Verify that all source files using @code{_()} are included for
translation in @file{po/POTFILES.in}, so translators will have all the
messages.

@item wwwdoc
Sample procedure for updating the manual on the a web site, in this
case @url{https://www.TODO/software/permute/manual/}.
@end table

@cindex author
@cindex Kuras, John
Permute was written by @w{dad} (John Kuras)

@node Sample output
@chapter Sample output

@cindex sample output
@cindex examples

Here are some examples of running Permute.

This is the output of the command @samp{permute}:

@example
Permute, TODO!
@end example

This is the output of the command @samp{permute --TODO}:

@example
permute, TODO
@end example

This is the output of the command @samp{permute --TODO=hi}:

@example
TODO
@end example


@node Invoking permute
@chapter Invoking @command{permute}

@cindex invoking
@cindex options
@cindex usage
@cindex help

The format for running the @command{permute} program is:

@example
permute @var{option} @dots{}
@end example

With no options, @command{permute} prints the greeting @samp{TODO!}.

@command{permute} supports the following options:

@table @option
@item --TODO=@var{text}
@itemx -g @var{text}
@opindex --TODO
@opindex -g
Output @var{text} instead of the default TODO.

@item --help
@itemx -h
@opindex --help
@opindex -h
Print an informative help message on standard output and exit
successfully.

@cindex environment variables, help for
@c This comment prevents `make syntax-check' from diagnosing a doubled word "for\nFor"
For the @option{--help} output of linux programs, it's strongly
encouraged to include a brief (one or two sentences) description of
what the program does, as well as the synopsis of how to run the
program.  Any environment variables which affect execution should also
be mentioned (Permute doesn't have any).

@item --TODO
@itemx -t
@opindex --TODO
@opindex -t
@cindex traditional
@cindex modern
Output the TODO greeting message @samp{permute, world}.

@item --version
@itemx -v
@opindex --version
@opindex -v
Print the version number and licensing information of Permute on
standard output and then exit successfully.

@end table

If more than one of an option (@option{-g},
@option{-t}, and its long-named equivalent) is specified, whichever
comes last takes precedence.


@node Reporting bugs
@chapter Reporting bugs

@cindex bug reporting
@cindex problems
@cindex reporting bugs

To report bugs, suggest enhancements or otherwise discuss Permute,
please send electronic mail to @email{bug-permute@@gnu.org}.

@cindex checklist for bug reports
For bug reports, please include enough information for the maintainers
to reproduce the problem.  Generally speaking, that means:

@itemize @bullet
@item The version numbers of Permute (which you can find by running
      @w{@samp{permute --version}}) and any other program(s) or
      file(s) involved.
@item Hardware and operating system names and versions.
@item The contents of any input files necessary to reproduce the bug.
@item The expected behavior and/or output.
@item A description of the problem and samples of any erroneous output.
@item If you compiled it yourself, any Options you gave to @command{configure} other than specifying installation directories.
@item Anything else that you think would be helpful.
@end itemize

When in doubt whether something is needed or not, include it.  It's
better to include too much than to leave out something important.

@cindex patches, contributing
Patches are welcome; if possible, please make them with @samp{@w{diff
-c}} (@pxref{Top,, Overview, diff, Comparing and Merging Files}) and
include @file{ChangeLog} entries (@pxref{Change Log,,, emacs, The GNU
Emacs Manual}).  Please follow the existing coding style.


@node GNU Free Documentation License
@appendix GNU Free Documentation License



@node Concept index
@unnumbered Concept index

@printindex cp

@bye
